VERCEL_DEPLOYMENT.md, before:

# Vercel Deployment Guide

This document provides instructions for deploying the WCT Exam Creation Manager to Vercel.

## Database Configuration

The application uses SQLite, which requires special handling in Vercel's serverless environment. Here's how it works:

1. During the build process, the database file is copied to Vercel's `/tmp` directory, which is writable.
2. All database operations use this temporary location for read/write operations.
3. The database permissions are explicitly set to be writable (chmod 666).

## Deployment Steps

1. **Push your code to GitHub**: Make sure your code is in a GitHub repository.

2. **Connect to Vercel**: 
   - Go to [Vercel](https://vercel.com) and create a new project
   - Connect your GitHub repository
   - Select the repository containing this project

3. **Configure Build Settings**:
   - Build Command: `npm run build` (this will run our custom vercel-build.js script)
   - Output Directory: `.next`
   - Install Command: `npm install`

4. **Set Environment Variables**:
   The following environment variables should be set in your Vercel project settings:
   ```
   DATABASE_URL=file:/tmp/wct.db
   DATABASE_PATH=/tmp/wct.db
   JWT_SECRET=your_secret_key_here
   NODE_ENV=production
   ```

5. **Deploy**:
   - Click "Deploy" and wait for the build to complete

## Troubleshooting

If you encounter database-related issues:

1. **Check Logs**: Vercel provides detailed logs for each deployment and function execution.

2. **Database Permissions**: The most common issue is database permissions. The application tries to:
   - Copy the database to `/tmp`
   - Set permissions to writable
   - Use explicit `readonly: false` when opening the database

3. **File System Limitations**: Remember that Vercel's `/tmp` directory is the only writable location, and it's ephemeral (temporary).

4. **Debugging**: Add more console.log statements to the database access code to help identify where issues might be occurring.

## Important Notes

- The database in `/tmp` is ephemeral and will be recreated on each cold start
- For production use with frequent writes, consider using a proper database service instead of SQLite
- The vercel.json file contains important configuration for the database paths

Commit message:

Fix authentication in cart API and improve error handling

VERCEL_DEPLOYMENT.md, after:

# Vercel Deployment Guide

This document provides instructions for deploying the WCT Exam Creation Manager to Vercel.

## Database Configuration

The application uses SQLite, which requires special handling in Vercel's serverless environment. Here's how it works:

1. During the build process, the database file is copied to Vercel's `/tmp` directory, which is writable.
2. All database operations use this temporary location for read/write operations.
3. The database permissions are explicitly set to be writable (chmod 666).

## Deployment Steps

1. **Push your code to GitHub**: Make sure your code is in a GitHub repository.

2. **Connect to Vercel**: 
   - Go to [Vercel](https://vercel.com) and create a new project
   - Connect your GitHub repository
   - Select the repository containing this project

3. **Configure Build Settings**:
   - Build Command: `npm run build` (this will run our custom vercel-build.js script)
   - Output Directory: `.next`
   - Install Command: `npm install`

4. **Set Environment Variables**:
   The following environment variables should be set in your Vercel project settings:
   ```
   DATABASE_URL=file:/tmp/wct.db
   DATABASE_PATH=/tmp/wct.db
   JWT_SECRET=your_secret_key_here
   NODE_ENV=production
   ```

   **Important**: For the `JWT_SECRET`, generate a strong random string. You can use this command to generate a secure secret:
   ```bash
   node -e "console.log(require('crypto').randomBytes(32).toString('hex'))"
   ```
   The JWT_SECRET must be the same value in all environments to ensure tokens remain valid.

5. **Deploy**:
   - Click "Deploy" and wait for the build to complete

## Troubleshooting

If you encounter database-related issues:

1. **Check Logs**: Vercel provides detailed logs for each deployment and function execution.

2. **Database Permissions**: The most common issue is database permissions. The application tries to:
   - Copy the database to `/tmp`
   - Set permissions to writable
   - Use explicit `readonly: false` when opening the database

3. **File System Limitations**: Remember that Vercel's `/tmp` directory is the only writable location, and it's ephemeral (temporary).

4. **Authentication Issues**: If you encounter problems with authentication or "add to cart" functionality:
   - Ensure the `JWT_SECRET` environment variable is properly set in Vercel
   - Check that the token is being correctly passed in the Authorization header
   - Verify that the client is storing and retrieving the token correctly
   - Look for any CORS issues that might be preventing the token from being sent

5. **Debugging**: Add more console.log statements to the database access code to help identify where issues might be occurring.

## Important Notes

- The database in `/tmp` is ephemeral and will be recreated on each cold start
- For production use with frequent writes, consider using a proper database service instead of SQLite
- The vercel.json file contains important configuration for the database paths
